So, guys, now finally, let us formulate our problem statement, that is what are all those questions,
whose answers we are willing to find in this section of the course?
So you can see on the right hand side, I have drawn a Mahmoudi region of a process.
So let us say that your process, our program claims Tronto by itself mummery using mallock function
so the hip region will expand by 20 bite's.
Also, notice that this starting address of this 20 bytes of memory will be saved in this point, already
will be one.
Now, your process claims 10 bytes of memory, then your process claims again time bytes of memory.
And again, the process claims 15 bytes of memory and finally process claims 20 by itself memory.
So you can see that as your process claims more and more memory using mallock function.
The heap memory just keeps on expanding from lower addressed towards higher address, the breakpoint
that finally settles at disposition.
Now, let us suppose that your program wants to free this 10 bytes of memory.
Right so far that your program calls free with a point of poetry as an argument.
Now, there are certain questions which should cross your mind, how operating system would know how
much mahmudi to free up in walking this free call, you can see that in this free call we are only passing
the value of the pointer P3.
That is this address, but we are not passing how much size we should free.
You can see that the size of this mammary block was standpipes.
So obviously the operating system should free only 10 bytes of memory.
But in this free call, we are not passing 10 as an argument.
Right.
So it means that the operating system needs to keep track somewhere that for every malac, what was
the amount of byte it assigned to the process?
Second question is that how operating system organizes the memory blocks, which is assigned by the
mallock function operating system needs to know that P3 is associated with 10 bytes of block of memory.
Right.
So you can see that P three was that starting address of 10 bytes of block of memory and three P three
calls should really is only 10 bytes of memory, not more and not less than that.
So how operating system ensures that P3 is a valid memory address, right.
It is also possible that you can invoke free call with some random address.
So operating system should be in a position to detect that.
The address that you have passed to the free call is actually the address, which was written by one
of the Malakal, which was invoked previously.
In second, you are allowed to pass only those addresses which were returned by Mallock or Kalac functions.
So let us understand the concept of memory block management to find our answers to these questions.
So basically, we want to understand how memory management is done by Linux operating system, and that
is the main goal of this section of the course.